---
title: Submissions - The First Seven Months of 2017
layout: blog
category: blog
published: true
tags: submissions stats
---

If you follow [my Twitter](https://twitter.com/hbbisenieks),
you may have seen that submission stat updates are a thing
that I do on the regular (or as regularly market responses
allow). If not, well, surprise! It's a stats post!

As of 2017-08-01 (I know I'm writing this on the 2nd, but
the month mark is a better break), I had 30 submissions for
the year. That's actually a bit ahead of where I was this time
last year (January through July of 2016 I had 28 submissions).
(Last year was a record year for me with 54 submissions for
the year--we'll see how the rest of this year shakes out.)

During that same time, I received got 30 rejections and a
sale. (I currently have four pieces out at various markets,
and I probably started the year with four or five out, too.)
These numbers brought my lifetime *recorded* submissions up to
226 since 2016, the year I started submitting to magazines,
and 209 recorded rejections.

I'll take a minute here to say that the difference between
those numbers does not point to my having a dozen-odd sales,
even accounting for the pending submissions. I have five
acceptances on record, of which four have been published,
along with several other credits written on assignment for
which there was no formal submission process.

It's also worth noting that in my early days of submitting,
I didn't do a great job keeping track of my submissions.
At the time, I wasn't using any sort of tool, even a
spreadsheet, to record my submissions, so some of my postal
subs I've intuited from old LJ posts or dug out of saved
email inboxes, while others from that time period are simply
lost. This is why I usually take pains, even with the 140-
character restriction of Twitter, to note that these are
*recorded* submissions.

So, back to this year's numbers. Of my 30 rejections, 23 were
form rejections, while 7 were personal. Without my sorting
through all the numbers for last year, I'll just say that I
totaled 14 personal rejections and 39 form rejections in 2016.
My 30 rejections are distributed across six different pieces,
though not an even distribution. Of those six pieces, one
had its first outing this year, while all the others were
written in previous years.

Finally, a few stats about the sale, since I'm sure some folks
are wondering. "The Air Gap" was sold on its 22nd outing. It
had been circulating since the end of March, 2014, and was
accepted at the beginning of March, 2017, gathering 17 form
rejections and 4 personal rejections along the way.

A final notable stat about this story is that it went through
a small rewrite about a year after I first finished it,
following a personal rejection from C. C. Finlay at _The Magazine
of Fantasy and Science Fiction_ (F&SF). Actually, it went out
twice more after I'd gotten that rejection from Charlie because
I didn't quite know what to make of the feedback I'd gotten.
It happened that I took Mary Robinette Kowal's short story
intensive at the start of 2015, and during that workshop, I
leveled up sufficiently that I was able to grok Charlie's feedback.
Then I just had to send it out 13 more times until it clicked.

I'm not sure what my numbers will be for 2017 as a whole, especially
since that depends to some extent on the speed of the markets I'm
submitting to and partly on how much new writing I get to a
finished state in the next five months. Whatever the case for my
stats, I hope that seeing these numbers is helpful for some of you.
Every person's path is different, but I think it helps to hear
stories and see stats from folks like me, since I think a lot of
new writers get hyper-focussed on the writers who seem to sell
without hardly trying or who sell stories on their first tries.

I can't say for sure how I would've reacted if I'd had a post like
this to look at when I was getting my start. Maybe I'd have given up,
though probably I would've just worked harder and hopefully actually
worked on my craft, but who can say. This has been my path, and it's
worked well for me. Your mileage, as always, may vary.
