---
layout: blog
title: Thoughts on EPH and the Puppies
category: blog
tags: Hugos sadrabids puppies awards
published: true
---

So the Hugos happened today, and I can't think of a more
wonderful or deserving group of winners. I also can't remember
the last time there was such a strong group of nominees. Every
category had at least five strong contenders, and I'd have
been happy if any of those five took home a rocket.

Thing is, there were six slots for each category on the ballot
this year. And in a few categories, notably Best Novel, there
were six deserving nominees. But some categories still carried
a whiff of puppy. Ugh.

This was the first year of the new nomination system, E
Pluribus Hugo (EPH), and while we had the final ballot since
the spring, we didn't get the full numbers until today.

They were... _revealing,_ to say the least. The puppy bloc
this year decided their best option was to try to game EPH by
only voting in one item per category (and bypassing some
categories altogether), which worked to an extent. The numbers
show though, that the pups aren't what they once were. I don't
know what their numbers were in past years (and I can't be
arsed to look it up), but there seem to have been a little
less than one hundred true believers this year willing to lay
out the money to nominate and/or vote. Which. Well, there's
probably a lot of forces at play, but it's got to be a bit
demoralizing, even for trolls whose stated goals are to "make
SJW heads explode," to come in below No Award over and over.

Do I think EPH is perfect? No, but it's better than what we had.
Do I wish that the sadrabids would move on? Absolutely. They can
go fuck around with the Dragon Awards to their hearts' content.
I don't care about the Dragons. (Not that I think there's
anything inherently wrong with them--I'd love to see them grow
into a mature, well-respected award--but I've got no emotional
attachment to them.) Does it please me that even if the
sadrabids can game their way towards getting a nominee in most
of the categories they set their sights on, we still get the
traditional five solid nominees to choose from, and we might
even get six in some categories.

If you want to see the full numbers, PDFs have been posted for
final and nominating vote tallies.

* [Final votes](http://www.worldcon.fi/wp-content/uploads/2017/08/HugoReport1_voting.pdf)
* [Nominating votes](http://www.worldcon.fi/wp-content/uploads/2017/08/HugoReport2_nominations.pdf)
