---
layout: default
title: 4th Kyu
published: true
category: blog
tags: aikido practice
---

Last night, I took to the mat at my aikido dojo, and at the end of the night, I was wearing a different colored belt. 
A year ago, just about, I did the same thing, going from a white belt--unranked--to a green belt--5th kyu.

It all seems a little unreal to me. I didn't come to martial arts until a couple years ago, most of the way to being 30. 
When I was young, my friends were on sports teams or played an instrument or took karate. The closest I ever got to 
a martial art as a child was bragging that I had a black belt, as one does when one is eight and the Power Rangers are the 
coolest thing in the world (especially since you're not allowed to watch them). But as I grew older, the idea that I'd 
have _any_ belt in a martial art began to seem more and more far-fetched. Martial arts were something that other folks 
did--folks with more self-discipline than I had, with more structure, more commitment.

Some days, I wish that I'd had that structure, that self-discipline when I was a kid. I wonder how much better I'd have 
turned out. But then I think, no. I'm in a good place. The path I took led me to where I am today, and I've learned 
those skills my own way.

If I weren't disciplined, at least somewhat, about my practice, I wouldn't have kept writing after my first rejection. 
If I weren't committed, I wouldn't meet regularly with my writing group, wouldn't have over 200 recorded submissions 
on The (Submission) Grinder, wouldn't have stories and essays in print.

And I wouldn't have the belt and rank I've earned at my dojo.

Aikido has no tournaments, no competitions. To get promoted to the next rank, 5th kyu to 4th to 3rd, you have to demonstrate 
sensei that you've practiced, that you're dedicated to the art, not just during your official rank demonstration but any 
time you're on the mat. The demonstration, a set of techniques appropriate to rank, is ceremony, a formalization of 
the work that you've done every time you enter the dojo. The real demonstration of your rank is how you comport yourself 
with fellow students, how you choose to respond to teachings from sensei and from senior students.

It still seems surreal some days that I practice a martial art at all, let alone that I have attained an actual belted 
rank (twice now). But it also makes sense.

Sensei tells us that the hardest part of our aikido practice (the hardest part of any practice, really) is showing up.

Eleven years since I started submitting my stories to magazines, six years since I finished an undergraduate degree 
in Creative Writing, two years since I took part in an intensive weekend short story workshop and gained a new group 
of friends and compatriots, my time at my dojo makes sense.
