---
title: Visibility
published: true
layout: blog
category: blog
tags:
  - LGBTQUIA
  - transness
---

honestly i've been sitting on this for a grip and just not quite knowing 
how to fit the words together, but i'm *tired,* y'all. so, visibility. 
of trans people, specifically.

it's me. i'm trans people.

it took me a long time to understand that about myself, and i didn't come 
to it on my own. i needed help. i needed to see that "trans" was a word 
that could describe me.

when i was little, i knew that i was weird. that i didn't fit. that i 
didn't act like the other little boys. that there were parts of me that i 
had to learn to hide to keep myself safe. that i couldn't talk about with 
anyone because i didn't have the language to capture it.

when i was in ninth grade, one of our history teachers came out as trans. 
we had an assembly where an administrator told us all that our teacher 
was a man now, that his pronouns were he/him, probably that misgendering 
him wouldn't be tolerated. but he didn't look like me.

i had a distant friend in high school who came out as trans. he didn't 
look like me, either.

years before she came out as trans, my closest friend at school told me 
that she was bisexual. she was the first bi person i knew i knew. we 
would go to goth clubs and she would make out with people while i danced 
or stood against the wall and nodded my head along. even before we were 
really friends, i was drawn to her, wanted to be her friend more than 
anything. we went through a lot of hard times together, but she didn't 
look like me.

she pierced my ears after high school. four holes i carry to this day, 
a little part of her with me all the time even though we haven't seen 
each other in a decade.

in college, my friend asked that we use neopronouns for them, then 
they/them. the neopronouns were hard. we were young. i knew so many 
queer people in college, so many trans people. none of them looked like 
me.

that same friend came out to me and my spouse as genderqueer sometime 
before our wedding. i think that was the first time i'd heard the word. 
but i didn't know it was something that could belong to me. not yet.

i "came out" to a friend one summer night while i was in college. we 
were driving to get snacks after a day of endless quaker committee 
meetings. i said that i'd only ever fallen for women before, but that 
i was open to the possibility that wouldn't always be the case. i was 
in my first actual relationship then. years later, my ex came out as 
nonbinary. i didn't think about that coming-out conversation again for
a long time.

i came out as bi to my cat while i was driving her to the vet for 
dental surgery. she was upset because she was in the car, but i knew 
that she was someone i could trust with my "secret." it wasn't for 
another few weeks that i came out to my spouse and a few of my friends. 
i used to think of outness as a binary, even though it's always been a 
spectrum. i'm out to some of my coworkers, mostly other queers, but not 
others. it's not worth the discomfort. or it's choosing the lesser of 
two levels of discomfort.

one time, my boss at the time said "everyone here is straight" in a 
meeting. he wore a rainbow strap on his apple watch in june. he'd like 
you to know that he's an ally. i felt deeply uncomfortable about not 
saying anything, but also deeply uncomfortable about the idea *of* 
saying something. after i left that job, a former coworker confided in 
me that this boss pulled some classic cishet white dude stuff with them. 
i felt grateful that i hadn't outed myself in that meeting long ago.

i found a copy of Maia Kobabe's *Gender Queer* at a bookstore the same 
summer that i left that job and bought it on the spot. i just thought it 
was neat. i knew that i needed it.

i read that book in a single sitting. i've re-read it more times than i 
can count since then.

Maia didn't look like me, but i still saw myself in eir experiences in a 
way that i hadn't experienced before. e was queer. queer as in weird. queer 
as in didn't get social expectations for eir assigned gender. queer as in, 
well, *queer.*

a month or two later, i got a tattoo of a jackalope on my arm, but if you 
look closely, you'll see that it's a bunny wearing a pair of antlers that 
are tied on under their chin. when i designed the tattoo, i explained that 
that was about live-action roleplaying. maybe i believed it? but that's 
not what it was really about, was it?

i had a gender crisis in 2020 at the start of the lockdown. if i'm being 
honest, i'd been having a gender crisis for years, quietly, tucked in the 
pages of journals hidden away where i didn't have to look at them. but 
suddenly, it was just two adult humans and two cats all alone in a house, 
doing their grocery shopping at first light, uncomfortable with the idea 
of other people in a new way.

there was a lot of gender going around then.

i came out as genderqueer to my cat while i was driving her to another 
appointment. maybe you're sensing a theme. she knows my secrets, but 
she'll never talk.

i came out to my partner. it was easier, in some ways, and harder in 
others. "i'm attracted to more than one gender" is much more straightforward 
than "i'm genderqueer, but my pronouns are he/him, but my experience of 
gender is ????" i talked to my few close nonbinary friends about it. 
that really helped, because we had a shared vocabulary of "gender? what 
the fuck?"

i came out to my therapist.

he just didn't get it. he was an older cishet white man. in one of our 
last sessions, he said that we should talk more about my gender. with 
my spouse's help, i broke up with him and found a new therapist before 
i had to go through that ordeal. my new therapist is queer. she asked me 
what pronouns to use for me in our first session and told me to tell her 
if that changed. i started using he/they, then they/he, then just they/them 
pronouns within a couple months. not everywhere at first, but most places.

bigots started challenging *Gender Queer* earlier this year, or maybe 
at the end of last year. who knows when? time is fake. they call it 
pornographic. they call it smut.

i call it lifechanging.

it wasn't until i was in my 30s that i started to see queer people who 
looked like me. it wasn't until i read a memoir by a person whose early 
life experiences mirrored my own that i really learned language to talk 
about myself.

i like where i am in my life. yes, i'm anxious, and we're all still out 
here with this pandemic and a global rise in fascism, but i know a lot 
more about myself, *understand* a lot more about myself at 35 than i did 
at 30, at 25, at 20. but that doesn't stop me from wondering what my life 
might have looked like if i'd seen people like me when i was growing up.

i can't change my past, but i can be visible for today's kids. maybe some 
weird little boy will see me in the grocery store and gain some understanding 
that he didn't have before. maybe a nonbinary teen will feel safer just 
existing knowing that they're not alone. that's what we mean when we talk 
about "trans visibility." that's why it's important. because trans visibility 
produces trans adults, but trans invisibility produces miserable people, 
miserable kids. or dead ones.

trans visibility, queer visibility, is lifesaving.
